---
title: "Is MinION reads sufficient to generate perfect bacterial genomes?"
author: "Tongda Li"
summary: "Nanopore sequencing has come into focus, especially for bacterial genomics, due to its ability to produce ultra-long reads that are essential for producing complete circular genomes"
date: 2019-07-03T20:24:51+11:00
draft: true
tags: [
    "nanopore",
]
---

Tongda Li\
PhD Candidate\
College of Science, Health and Engineering | La Trobe University

## Abstract

Nanopore sequencing has come into focus, especially for bacterial genomics, due to its ability to produce ultra-long reads that are essential for producing complete circular genomes. Moreover, since data can be generated and analysed in real-time, nanopore sequencing is a promising technology for time-critical tasks like biosecurity and diagnostics. However, due to the nature of the current sequencing chemistry, reads produced by nanopore sequencing have a much higher error rate when compared to the Illumina sequencing. Therefore, although complete circular genomes could be generated by only using nanopore reads, it is important to understand the quality of such genome assemblies. In this study, a bacterial genome was sequenced on both the Illumina HiSeq platform and the Oxford Nanopore MinION platform. A hybrid genome assembly was generated and then used as the reference for investigating the error profile of MinION reads. A complete circular genome was also generated by only using MinION reads, and then was polished by two different software to generate consensus sequences. The comparison between the hybrid assembly, the MinION-only assembly and the polished MinION-only assembly revealed a consensus accuracy of up to 99.93%, which may cause trouble to analysis like genome annotation, SNP identification and phylogenetics study. Such results suggested Illumina reads will remain a necessity for generating highly accurate bacterial genomes.
